Exec-Copy-Drafting-Principles (#2697)
makerdao/community: processes/executive-copy-principles.md

# Executive Copy Drafting Principles

## Objectives

Your principal obligation as the writer of Executive Vote copy is to ensure **unquestionable legitimacy around the governance process**. 

The document below aims to provide guidelines on how to achieve this objective and:
- Guard against disruption and drama coming from ambiguity. 
- Ensure objectivity and eliminate any responsibility for bias. 
- Guard against accusations of obscuring, complicating, or manipulating information.
- Remove the risk that voters will regret their decision due to insufficient information and understanding.
- Make it easy for the voters to read, process, and interpret the information in the least possible time.

## Target Audience
You should tailor the form, style, and content of the Executive Vote copy to the needs of the average MakerDAO voter who is characterized by:
- Low to mid-level familiarity with MakerDAO and its context.
- Non-native familiarity with the English language.
- No technical knowledge. 

> - Limited willingness to dedicate time and effort to the voting process.

Author: It was based on the current documentation. Would it make sense to specify that we have two types of voters? ADs, who are very knowledgeable and individual voters who comply with the points above? Or would you suggest removing this section altogether?

## Principles

When drafting the Executive Vote copy, you need to make sure the document provides full **transparency**, is **comprehensive** in terms of information, and is **clear**, making it easy to read and unambiguous in interpretation.

### Transparency

Transparent Executive Vote copy provides the voters with **explicit, objective, and unobscured information** on the core elements of the proposal:
- [x] **Description** of each item included in the Executive vote, created by an unbiased and knowledgeable third party.
- [x] **Reasoning** for why each item is being included in the Executive Vote.
- [x] **Processes** that have led to each item being included in the Executive Vote.
- [x] **Identities** of those responsible for drafting, reviewing, publishing, and coding the Executive Vote.
- [x] **Authorization(s)** for inclusion of each item in the Executive Vote and clarity on where the approval power comes from.

> - [x] Explanation of foreseeable **implications** of actions that will occur as a result of Executive Vote passing.

Author: To reflect that these are items that should be included and to make the format a bit more interesting than simple bullet points. I'm happy to bring it back to simplicity though, if you think it makes things clearer.

## Clarity

Clear Executive Vote copy is characterized by **smooth reading, reducing processing effort and confusion** through:
- [x] Concise, logical, and predictable **organization** of contents. 
- [x] Simple, easy-to-understand **language**, free of idiomatic expressions, localisms, etc.
- [x] Correct placement of **acronyms and other abbreviations**:
  - Introduce abbreviations in parentheses after their expanded form, e.g., _Governance AI Tools (GAIT)_.
  - Once the abbreviation has been introduced, use it exclusively, i.e., do not use the expanded form again.
- [x] **Explanation of new concepts** or inclusion of links (in case of more extensive definitions).
- [x] Consistent use of **repeating structures**: Do not reformulate sentences or change forms and structures provided by the template without a specific need to do so.
> [!IMPORTANT]
> For clear improvements in form or structure, make sure to update the template to maintain consistency in future Executive Vote copies.

> - [x] **Standardization of formatting** as per the guidelines below:

Author: My idea was to remove the style guide and have everything in one document as style and format are part of the guiding principles.

|                     | Parameters |
|:-------------------:| -----------|
| New parameters      | When the parameter is established for the first time (e.g., when onboarding a new module or function), it must be quoted as:<br> `$parameter_name will be set to $value`</br><br><li>_Maximum Debt Ceiling will be set to 50 million DAI.<li>Ceiling Increase Cooldown will be set to 12 hours._</li></br> |
| Existing parameters | When the proposal refers to the modification of an existing parameter, the change must be quoted as:<br>`$parameter_name will be $change by $change_value from $original_value to **$new_value**`<br> The new value must be marked in **bold**.<br> In a set of parameters, all values should be listed, even if they remain unchanged.<br><br> <li>_Target Available Debt will be decreased by 20 million from 400 million to **380 million**. <li> DC-IAM line (max DC) remains unchanged at 10B._</li></br>| 

> |Percentage change    |  Differences in numbers expressed as percentages must be fully spelled out.<br><br><li>_The DSR will decrease by 1 percentage point, from 8% to 7%._ </li><br> The percentage difference between two non-percentual numbers must be quoted as the `%` value.<br><li>_The supply of DAI will increase by 20% from 100,000 DAI to 80,000 DAI._</li><br> Note that typically deltas are specified as nominal and not percentual values, so this would be applicable only in exceptional cases.</br>|

Reviewer: Tried to improve the wording.

Your example is a decrease not an increase 🙂 

```suggestion
|Percentage change    |  Differences in numbers expressed as percentages must be fully spelled out. Care should be taken to differentiate percentage points and percentage change.<br><br><li>_The DSR will decrease by 1 percentage point, from 8% to 7%._ </li><br> The percentage difference between two non-percentual numbers must be quoted as the `%` value.<br><li>_The supply of DAI will decrease by 20% from 100,000 DAI to 80,000 DAI._</li><br> Note that typically deltas are specified as nominal and not percentual values, so this would be applicable only in exceptional cases.</br>|
```
